Software Requirements Specification

for

Iditarod Wireless Usage



Version 0.0
Prepared by Kyle Shepherd
General Communication Inc.

 
Table of Contents
1.	Introduction	
1.1	Purpose	
1.2	Document Conventions	
1.3	Intended Audience and Reading Suggestions	
1.4	Product Scope	
2.	Overall Description	
2.1	Product Functions	
2.2	User Classes and Characteristics	
2.3	Operating Environment	
2.4	Design and Implementation Constraints	
2.5	Assumptions and Dependencies	
3.	External Interface Requirements	
3.1	User Interfaces	
3.2	Hardware Interfaces	
3.3	Software Interfaces	
3.4	Communications Interfaces	
4.	System Features	
4.1	Usage by Cell Tower	
4.1.1	Description and Priority	
4.1.2	Stimulus/Response Sequences	
4.1.3	Functional Requirements	
4.2	Usage by Date	
4.2.1	Description and Priority	
4.2.2	Stimulus/Response Sequences	
4.2.3	Functional Requirements	
4.3	Musher Progress	
4.3.1	Description and Priority	
4.3.2	Stimulus/Response Sequences	
4.3.3	Functional Requirements	
5.	Other Nonfunctional Requirements	
5.1 	Performance Requirements	



1.	   Introduction


1.1	Purpose
The purpose of this project is to create a dynamic analytical tool, interactive to the user,
to determine whether wireless cell tower usage along the Iditarod path increases during the
race. This project will establish, by cell tower, the change in usage as mushers arrive at 
checkpoints. 

1.2	Document Conventions
•	Iditarod Wireless Usage will be referred to as “IWU.”
•	Dashboard is a collection of graphical visualizations. 

1.3	Intended Audience and Reading Suggestions
IWU is intended for specifically for Data Analysts and Engineers in the telecommunications
field, however, an educated reader will be able to interpret the findings. 

1.4	Product Scope 
IWU will be a visual analytical tool, based in the software Tableau, that blends Iditarod
race data to GCI’s wireless usage data to create a series of visualizations that will be
used to infer changes in the network during the race. This tool will be able to track 
peak usage periods for specific cell towers along the Iditarod path, a vital piece of 
information to know in order to determine if the tower’s traffic is close to its max 
capacity. The goal of IWU is to have an analytical tool that has a large enough range 
of complexity that a reasonably educated person to an engineer can interpret useful 
information from the project.


2.	Overall Description


2.1	Product Functions
IWU will have four main functions:
•	Blend public Iditarod data with GCI’s wireless usage data
•	Scrub wireless usage data of identifying metadata fields 
•	Plot relevant cell towers along Iditarod path.
•	Have two main user driven dashboards to inspect:
o	Usage during the race. 
o	Race progress, per musher. 

2.2	User Classes and Characteristics
There are three distinct user classes that will interact with IWU. Experts in the 
telecommunication field, educated reader, and casual reader. All users are expected to 
have basic experience with operation of a computer. 

An expert in the telecommunication field is expected to be able to withdraw useful 
information about network load changes. They should have an extensive understanding of
graphical visualizations. 

Educated readers pertains to someone who can interpret more advanced data visualizations. 
Should be able to understand the significance of network load change results from IWU. 

Casual readers pertain to someone who can reasonable absorb useful statistics from IWU 
and the impact of the Iditarod on Alaska’s rural cell network. 

2.3	Operating Environment
All data will be manipulated using the software Alteryx. IWU will run within the software 
Tableau. Tableau can run on Windows 7 and newer, or OSX 10.10 or newer. IWU will also be 
available online and will be supported through Chrome on Windows, mac, and Android 4.4 or
later; Apple Safari on Mac and iOS 8.x or later; Internet Explorer 11 or newer; Mozilla 
Firefox 3.x or newer on Windows and Mac; as well as Tableau Mobile iOS and Android apps.
 
2.4	Design and Implementation Constraints
Access to [INSERT DATABASE HERE, TBD] will be needed to retrieve wireless usage data for 
dates corresponding to the 2016 Iditarod. Tableau and Alteryx will be needed to achieve
the desired end product. Once the product is complete, no further maintenance will be 
upheld. 

2.5	Assumptions and Dependencies
It is assumed a computer with minimum 3.0 GHz of processing power and at least 8GB of
RAM with Tableau and Alteryx licenses associated with that computer will be provided by 
GCI, on a temporary basis. At which, GCI has the right to reclaim at any time. This 
project is dependent on having valid Tableau and Alteryx licenses throughout the extent 
of the project.


3.	 External Interface Requirements


3.1	User Interfaces
	The user interface will be driven and built in Tableau. Each dashboard will be 
interactive to the user. User’s will have drop down menus to change parameters associated 
with that dashboard. For example, the parameters will range from selecting a cell site to 
analyze the traffic through that tower throughout each day of the Iditarod, to selecting 
a musher and track his/her progress through the race. 

As specified above, the software Tableau is the user interface, however, a license is not 
required to interact with the tool. Users will be able to access the tool via the Internet
 where Tableau Server implements the user interface. 

3.2	Hardware Interfaces
Supported devices are computers running Windows 7 or newer, OSX 10.10 or newer. 
Mobile devices running iOS or Android. 
3.3	Software Interfaces
	Wireless usage data will be retrieved from SQL database, 
[INSERT DATABASE HERE, TBD], using Alteryx. Data will be scrubbed clean of identifying 
features and saved into a .tde (Tableau Data Extract) format. Public Iditarod data will
be pulled from an online source [INSERT IDITAROD DATA SOURCE URL HERE]. Alteryx will be 
used to blend both data sources in preparation for graphical visualizations in Tableau.
IWU will be available to access via web browsers such as: Chrome, Safari, Internet Explorer,
and Firefox. 

3.4	Communications Interfaces
	Internet access is required to access the online version. Furthermore, if one has 
a license of Tableau, a downloadable version will be available via the same site that IWU 
will be stored on. 



4.	System Features

4.1	Usage by Cell Tower
4.1.1	Description and Priority
This feature will allow the user to select a desired cell site (by name) and have displayed:
 the usage every day of the race at that specific tower; the number of mushers checked-in 
to the nearest checkpoint for each corresponding day; a percent increase to an average usage
 at that cell tower; and the number of connections to that cell tower by people each 
corresponding day. This feature is of high priority.

4.1.2	Stimulus/Response Sequences
A user will select a cell tower name from a drop down menu, while the tool will auto-update
 visualizations to display what the user requested. 

4.1.3	Functional Requirements
Data must have corresponding fields to be able to blend together. Dynamic updating is 
required to return data that only corresponds to the cell tower the user has selected. 
Each record in the dataset must be found in order to achieve an accurate sub-set of data. 


4.2		Usage by Date
4.2.1	Description and Priority
	This feature will provide the user a way to track usage across every cell tower 
during each day of the race. This will provide the total usage for each day; display the 
top cell tower (in terms of total usage) for that day; the most visited (in terms of 
mushers checked-in) checkpoint for that day; and a percent increase in traffic from the 
previous day. 

4.2.2	Stimulus/Response Sequences
The user will select the dashboard “Usage by Date” to view the associated visualizations.
Each visualization will be interactive and contain tooltips to display further information 
about that data point. Tooltips will be activated by the user hovering their cursor over 
the data point in question. This is a built-in feature in Tableau. 

4.2.3	Functional Requirements
Same as section 4.1.3

4.3		Musher Progress
4.3.1	Description and Priority
This feature is guided more towards a casual user to track progress of mushers as the 
race proceeds. Users will have the ability to see which mushers were leading for a 
specific day. Along with their total distance traveled, time of check-in/check-outs at 
checkpoints, what checkpoints they hit when, and the overall winner. Users will also 
have the ability to track any registered musher’s progress that they wish, not just the 
leading mushers.

4.3.2	Stimulus/Response Sequences
 Users will select the dashboard “Musher Progress” to view the corresponding tools. 
Each visualization will be connected, functionally. If a user would like to track 
“John Doe’s” progress, every visualization must dynamically update to show information 
for “John Doe.” Users will have drop down boxes to select a musher as well as selecting 
a checkpoint to see the “standings” for that checkpoint. Once a user selects the desired
 input, outputs should only contain data pertaining to that musher/checkpoint.

4.3.3	Functional Requirements

Same as 4.1.3

5.	Other Nonfunctional Requirements

5.1 	Security Requirements
	All data must be cleaned of any identifying information. 
Original dataset cannot be released, however, once the dataset has been parsed
 though Alteryx, all personal information will have been scrubbed from the set. 
	
	

















Appendix A: Glossary

Appendix B: Analysis Models

Appendix C: TBD List
